# X entiment Analysis
## Introduction
Sentiment analysis is a technique used to determine the emotional tone from remarks or comments that users of certain application either X, facebook, instagram or tiktok about a certain topic.

This remarks can have a positive tone, neutral tone and negative tone towards a certain audience.

## Business Understanding
### Background
X is a popular social media platform that most people use to share their opinions about certain topics, this can either be political, religious or social trends.

These opinions can be positive, negative or neutral towards the topic been addressed. These opinions are mainly in text format.


### Problem statement
Due to the growing amount of user-generated content on X, it is becoming more difficult for researchers, corporation to accurately and efficiently gauge public opinion on particular subjects, goods, or occasions. It's challenging to glean useful data from tweets because of their sheer number and informal style, which frequently includes slang, acronyms, and emoticons. This leads to inadequate insights generated by corporations from public opinion to improve certain products or when advertising certain products.

### Objective
1. Develop a sentiment analysis model that uses natural preprocessing language(nlp) to preprocess and clean the tweets, and make it in a more structured format for sentiment analysis.

2. Use the sentiment analysis model that can accurately classify tweets into positive, negative and neutral sentiment categories.

3. Evaluate Performance: Measure the model's accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score on a labeled dataset, and iteratively improve based on evaluation results.

### Conclusion
Although emojis, acronyms, and slang are common on Twitter, the informal tone of the network makes it difficult to draw meaningful conclusions from user-generated content. While sophisticated NLP models and neural network approaches, handle the complexity of sentiment grouping, preprocessing is essential to cleanse this noisy data.